
     _          _                   _
  __| |o ___ __| |__ ___  __ _  ___| |__   ___     distcache
 / _` |_/ __|__   __/ __|/ _` |/ __| '_ \ / , \    Distributed session caching
| (_| | \__ \  | | | (__| (_| | (__| | | |  __/    www.distcache.org
 \__,_|_|___/  |_|  \___|\__,_|\___|_| |_|\___|    distcache.sourceforge.net

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   ``Society has always seemed to demand a
                                     little more from human beings than it will
                                     get in practice.''
                                                       -- George Orwell


distcache release: 0.4pre2
--------------------------

We are pleased to announce the release of version 0.4pre2 of the distcache
package. For more information on what distcache is and how to use it, please
see the README as it provides a good introduction and a guide to the other
documents in this package.

The main changes in version 0.4pre2 from version 0.4pre1 are packaging and
documention related. The functionality of the tools and libraries have not
changed in any consequential way. The release of 0.4pre2 is an attempt to drive
towards a stable 0.4 release. The arrangement of the source code has been
organised quite a bit, many improvements have been made to the installation and
packaging support, and documentation is well underway and requires only a few
additions plus some fixes to the build system. There is also experimental
support for RPM packaging available.

This release is being labelled "alpha". The intention is to work towards a 0.4
release that will be (conservatively) labelled "beta". The target there is for
the tools, libraries, and documentation in 0.4 to be stable and without known
bugs. At that point a distcache beta will be ready to be more widely publicised
and tested by others. I define the difference between "beta" and "stable" to be
linguistic; they both mean 'solid', but the former is in the language of the
project's developers and the latter is in the language of its users.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please bookmark the distcache home page and check back from time to time, and/or
subscribe to one or more of the email lists mentioned on the site;
    http://www.distcache.org/

The distcache project is hosted by SourceForge.net, and as such provides a full
range of additional services. Please feel free to take a browse :-)

Thanks for trying out distcache!

--
Geoff Thorpe,
"distcache" Project Admin
http://www.distcache.org/

