
     _          _                   _
  __| |o ___ __| |__ ___  __ _  ___| |__   ___     distcache
 / _` |_/ __|__   __/ __|/ _` |/ __| '_ \ / , \    Distributed session caching
| (_| | \__ \  | | | (__| (_| | (__| | | |  __/    www.distcache.org
 \__,_|_|___/  |_|  \___|\__,_|\___|_| |_|\___|    distcache.sourceforge.net

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                      ``Geez, you even copied the 'cute-quotes'
                                        layout from the mod_ssl README?!''
                                                            -- Geoff Thorpe


Introduction
------------

This package provides a variety of functionality for enabling a network-based
session caching system, primarily for (though not restricted to) SSL/TLS session
caching. Included in 'distcache' are the libraries that implement the necessary
network functionality, the session caching protocol, and APIs for applications
wishing to use a distributed session cache, or indeed even implement a storage
mechanism for a session cache server.

The distributed session caching technology that formed the seed code of the
'distcache' project was developed by Cryptographic Appliances Inc, who in July
2002 gave permission for release of the code and creation of the public
'distcache' project. Thanks go to Chris Zimman and CryptoApps. :-)


Features
--------

 o Open-Source software, covered by the terms of the LGPL ("Lesser GNU Public
   License").
 o Independantly-usable non-blocking Network Abstraction Library (libnal).
 o Transparently supports IPv4 and unix domain sockets in a single namespace
   (IPv6 yet to come).
 o Includes useful implementations of a session cache server and proxy.
 o Already integrated for use with Apache/mod_ssl.
 o Builds/runs without any dependancies on Apache, mod_ssl, OpenSSL, etc.
 o probably much, much more ...


Further information
-------------------

There are other text files you might want to browse depending on what it is
you're looking for;

 o ANNOUNCE:
     Details about the the current distcache release.
 o CHANGES:
     A change-log summarising noteworthy changes between distcache releases.
 o FAQ:
     Common questions and answers about using the 'distcache' libraries and
     tools.
 o INSTALL:
     Explains how to compile and install elements of the 'distcache' package.
 o LICENSE:
     The text of the LGPL ("Lesser GNU Public License").
 o README.API
     Basic information about programming with the 'distcache' libraries until
     such time as there are better docs available (ie. man pages).
 o README.TOOLS
     Basic usage information about the executable programs built in the
     'distcache' package.

For information about ongoing development, up-to-date source code, etc, please
go the home page(s);

    http://www.distcache.org/
    http://distcache.sourceforge.net/

The SourceForge.net-hosted development site has mail lists, a "Tracker" system
for bug-reports, feature requests, etc, an online CVS browser system to view the
history of source-code changes, and a variety of other information about the
project.

Disclaimer
----------

Read the LICENSE file, it's all in there. Also, the web is littered with various
discussion archives, READMEs, HOWTOs, and other resources about open source
licensing, especially for such popular licenses as the LGPL. If in doubt, have
your lawyer look at it, and they would do well to start by visiting www.gnu.org.
But to briefly summarise the disclaimer implicit in the LGPL ... basically no
guarantees are given in any sense. Much like any expensive proprietary software
you might be running, probably. Except of course 'distcache' isn't all that
expensive or proprietary. :-)

