=pod

=head1 NAME

DC_SERVER_set_default_cache, DC_SERVER_set_cache, DC_SERVER_new, DC_SERVER_free, DC_SERVER_items_stored, DC_SERVER_reset_operations, DC_SERVER_num_operations, DC_SERVER_new_client, DC_SERVER_del_client, DC_SERVER_process_client, DC_SERVER_clients_to_sel, DC_SERVER_clients_io - distcache server API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <distcache/dc_server.h>

 DC_SERVER *DC_SERVER_new(unsigned int max_sessions);
 void DC_SERVER_free(DC_SERVER *ctx);
 int DC_SERVER_set_default_cache(void);
 int DC_SERVER_set_cache(const DC_CACHE_cb *impl);
 unsigned int DC_SERVER_items_stored(DC_SERVER *ctx,
                                     const struct timeval *now);
 void DC_SERVER_reset_operations(DC_SERVER *ctx);
 unsigned long DC_SERVER_num_operations(DC_SERVER *ctx);
 DC_CLIENT *DC_SERVER_new_client(DC_SERVER *ctx, NAL_CONNECTION *conn,
                                 unsigned int flags);
 int DC_SERVER_del_client(DC_CLIENT *clnt);
 int DC_SERVER_process_client(DC_CLIENT *clnt,
                              const struct timeval *now);
 int DC_SERVER_clients_to_sel(DC_SERVER *ctx, NAL_SELECTOR *sel);
 int DC_SERVER_clients_io(DC_SERVER *ctx, NAL_SELECTOR *sel,
                          const struct timeval *now);

=head1 RETURN VALUES

DC_SERVER_new() returns an initialised B<DC_SERVER> object, or NULL for
failure.

DC_SERVER_free() and DC_SERVER_reset_operations() have no return value.

DC_SERVER_items_stored() returns the number of cached sessions in a cache
(after any session expiry is performed).

DC_SERVER_num_operations() indicates how many operations the cache object has
performed.

DC_SERVER_new_client() returns a new B<DC_CLIENT> object, or NULL for failure.

The remaining functions return non-zero for success or zero for failure.

=head1 DESCRIPTION and NOTES

These functions facilitate the implementation a session cache server to be
compatible with the distcache protocol. The source code to dc_server(1)
provides an example of using this API, and is probably the ideal reference (a
single C file of 304 lines). The storage of the cache is provided by a table of
handler functions defined by the B<DC_CACHE_cb> structure;

 typedef struct st_DC_CACHE_cb {
         DC_CACHE *   (*cache_new)(unsigned int max_sessions);
         void         (*cache_free)(DC_CACHE *cache);
         int          (*cache_add)(DC_CACHE *cache,
                                   const struct timeval *now,
                                   unsigned long timeout_msecs,
                                   const unsigned char *session_id,
                                   unsigned int session_id_len,
                                   const unsigned char *data,
                                   unsigned int data_len);
         unsigned int (*cache_get)(DC_CACHE *cache,
                                   const struct timeval *now,
                                   const unsigned char *session_id,
                                   unsigned int session_id_len,
                                   unsigned char *store,
                                   unsigned int store_size);
         int          (*cache_remove)(DC_CACHE *cache,
                                      const struct timeval *now,
                                      const unsigned char *session_id,
                                      unsigned int session_id_len);
         int          (*cache_have)(DC_CACHE *cache,
                                    const struct timeval *now,
                                    const unsigned char *session_id,
                                    unsigned int session_id_len);
         unsigned int (*cache_num_items)(DC_CACHE *cache,
                                         const struct timeval *now);
 } DC_CACHE_cb;

libdistcacheserver provides a default implementation that can be enabled by
calling DC_SERVER_set_default_cache() prior to DC_SERVER_new(). Alternatively,
a customised cache implementation can be specified by DC_SERVER_set_cache().
The reason that one or the other I<must> be specified is so that custom
implementations will not need to have the default implementation linked in
because they won't explicitly call DC_SERVER_set_default_cache().

The choice of B<DC_CACHE_cb> implementation will control all manipulations and
queries on the session cache. Each handler is passed a B<struct timeval> value
to allow it to implicitly handle expiry of old sessions without having to
repeatedly query the time on each invokation.

Outside the actual cache implementation, the other subject covered by
I<libdistcacheserver> is that of managing client connections and processing their
requests. It is assumed that the caller will use I<libnal> to handle the network
aspects of the cache server - otherwise the application would be better to use
the lower-level B<DC_PLUG> API (see DC_PLUG_new(2)), and the implementation of
I<libdistcacheserver> would provide a good reference for this.

New clients of the cache server are created by DC_SERVER_new_client() using the
supplied connection object B<conn>. The behaviour of the returned B<DC_CLIENT>
object depends on the B<flags> parameter, which is zero or a bitwise
combination of the following values;

 #define DC_CLIENT_FLAG_NOFREE_CONN   (unsigned int)0x0001
 #define DC_CLIENT_FLAG_IN_SERVER     (unsigned int)0x0002

If B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_NOFREE_CONN> is set, then B<conn> will not be destroyed
when the B<DC_CLIENT> object is destroyed by DC_SERVER_new_client(). Note, the
B<DC_CLIENT> object encapsulates the provided B<conn> object and does not copy
it.

If B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_IN_SERVER> is set, then network traffic and request
processing for the client will be implicit in the DC_SERVER_clients_to_sel()
and DC_SERVER_clients_io() functions. This includes destroying any clients that
have disconnected at the network level or had corruption errors at the data level.

If B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_IN_SERVER> is not set, then selecting and performing
network I/O should be handled by the caller directly using the original B<conn>
object, and checking for (and processing of) requests should be handled
directly by DC_SERVER_process_client(). A zero return value from this function
indicates an error in the client's processing, and would then require the
caller to destroy the client object via DC_SERVER_del_client(). This allows network handling
and logical cache handling to be explicitly separated by the implementation if
required.

Note that the dc_server(1) implementation is greatly simplified by using
B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_IN_SERVER> and not setting B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_NOFREE_CONN>. This
allows it to forget about B<NAL_CONNECTION> objects after they have been
successfully converted into B<DC_CLIENT> objects, and in fact can forget about
the resulting B<DC_CLIENT> objects too as they become completely controlled by
the B<DC_SERVER> object. If the client is closed, the underlying connection
object is destroyed also. If the cache server itself is destroyed, then any
remaining clients will likewise be properly cleaned up.

DC_SERVER_clients_to_sel() and DC_SERVER_clients_io() only operate on cache
clients that are created with the B<DC_CLIENT_FLAG_IN_SERVER> flag.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DC_PLUG_new(2)>, L<DC_PLUG_read(2)> - Lower-level asynchronous implementation
of the distcache protocol, useful for client and server operation.

L<dc_server(1)> - Runs a cache server listening on a configurable network
address.

L<distcache(8)> - Overview of the distcache architecture.

F<http://www.distcache.org/> - Distcache home page.

=head1 AUTHOR

This toolkit was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe for Cryptographic
Appliances Incorporated. Since the project was released into open source, it
has a home page and a project environment where development, mailing lists, and
releases are organised. For problems with the software or this man page please
check for new releases at the project web-site below, mail the users mailing
list described there, or contact the author at F<geoff@geoffthorpe.net>.

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

