=head1 NAME

dc_server - Distributed session cache server


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dc_server> [options]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dc_server> runs a cache server and starts listening on a configurable network
address for connections. Incoming connections are expected to communicate using
the L<distcache(8)> protocol, and would typically be instances of
L<dc_client(1)> running on other machines.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-daemon>

After initialising, B<dc_server> will detach from the parent process, close
standard file-descriptors, etc. If this flag is not set, B<dc_server> will run in
the foreground. It is recommended to use this flag in combination with the
I<pidfile> flag to simplify stopping and restarting services.

=item B<-listen> address

Configures the address on which B<dc_server> should listen for incoming connections.
The syntax is that defined by the I<libnal> API. Some examples follow;

    # Listen on port 9001 for all TCP/IPv4 interfaces
    dc_server -listen IP:9001

    # Listen on port 9001 on a specific TCP/IPv4 interface
    dc_server -listen IP:192.168.0.1:9001
    dc_server -listen IP:cacheserver.localnet:9001

    # Listen on a unix domain socket in the /tmp directory
    dc_server -listen UNIX:/tmp/cacheserver

=item B<-sessions> num

Specifies a maximum number of sessions that should be stored in the cache. All
sessions in a cache have an expiry time so that they will, if they have not
been forcibly removed before that time, be expired out of the cache. If it is
desirable to allow long session timeouts under normal situations yet protect
against the session cache growing without limit periods of high-load, this
limit can provide the required balance. If the session cache reaches this
limit, it will automatically rotate out those sessions in the cache that are
due to expire soonest. It is not (yet) possible to have no limit at all, though
a future version should support this by allowing the user to specify zero.

The default value for this flag is 512.

=item B<-progress> num

B<dc_server> will, by default, log a line of output to stdout whenever there is
cache activity, but will make sure to do so no more often than once a second.
If B<-progress> is specified, this will take precedence  so that output will be
emitted whenever B<num> operations have occurred since the last output,
irrespective of how little time has elapsed. The once-a-second logic remains
behind this, so that if less than B<num> operations has taken place but at
least one second has passed, output will still be logged. This flag has no
effect if B<-daemon> is used.

=item B<-pidfile> path

This is a standard flag for many programs, and most useful in combination with
B<-daemon>. When B<-pidfile> is specified B<dc_server> will write its process
ID to a file at the specified path upon successful initialisation. To use this
path file to later kill the running B<dc_server> instance, use something like
(where B<pidfile.pid> is whatever B<path> was);

    kill `cat pidfile.pid`

=item B<-h>, B<-help>, B<-?>

Any of these flags will cause B<dc_server> to display a brief usage summary to
the console and exit cleanly. Any other flags are ignored.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<dc_client(1)>

Distributed caching client proxy.

=item L<distcache(8)>

Overview of the distcache architecture.

=item F<http://www.distcache.org/>

Distcache home page.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

This toolkit was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe for Cryptographic
Appliances Incorporated. Since the project was released into open source, it
has a home page and a project environment where development, mailing lists, and
releases are organised. For problems with the software or this man page please
check for new releases at the project web-site below, mail the users mailing
list described there, or contact the author at F<geoff@geoffthorpe.net>.

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

