=head1 NAME

distcache - Distributed session caching

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The distcache architecture provides a protocol and set of accompanying tools to
allow applications, and indeed machines, to share session state between them by
way of a network service.

The primary use of distcache right now is for SSL/TLS session caching. This
allows SSL/TLS servers (eg. a secure Apache web server providing HTTPS support)
to use a centralised session cache. This allows any server to resume any
SSL/TLS sessions negotiated by another server on the network. The advantages to
this approach include increased freedom on mechanisms for load-balancing -
there is no need nor motivation to route incoming connections to the same
server to improve the chances for SSL/TLS, and indeed doing so defeats the
point of load-balancing, is a complex task requiring a lot of state, and the
resulting routers can become a bottleneck and a single point of failure.

Future versions of distcache will expand on the protocol and should provide for
a variety of "shared-state" uses besides SSL/TLS session caching.


=head1 TOOLS

=over 4

=item B<dc_server>

Runs a cache server listening on a configurable network address. See
L<dc_server(1)>.

=item B<dc_client>

Runs a local client proxy. This presents an interface to applications much like
B<dc_server> but itself manages multiplexing application requests to/from a
cache server through a single persistent connection. See L<dc_client(1)>.

=item B<dc_test>

Sends a (configurable) barrage of session caching requests to a given network
address using the distcache protocol. Useful for testing correctness of an
installation as well as benchmarking. See L<dc_test(1)>.

=item B<dc_snoop>

A transparent proxy tool supporting the distcache protocol that can be used to
monitor cache operation requests and responses between any two end-points (eg.
between an application and B<dc_client>, or between B<dc_client> and
B<dc_server>). See L<dc_snoop(1)>.

=back

=head1 APIS

The comments below provide a short summary of the APIs available in distcache.
To view more details, consult the section 2 man pages these summaries refer to.
If you are using a packaged version of distcache, you may need to ensure that a
corresponding "devel" package is installed as the libraries, headers, and API
documentation is often packaged independantly of the user tools.

=head2 libnal

This is the underlying Network Abstraction Library (hence "NAL") used by the
distcache libraries and tools. libnal uses non-blocking sockets, with an
addressing abstraction that allows tools to transparently work over unix domain
sockets or TCP/IPv4 sockets by a change of address text. For this reason, all
the distcache tools can have their "-listen" and "-connect" switches set to
work over either kind of transport.

libnal defines various object types;

=over 4

=item NAL_ADDRESS (see L<NAL_ADDRESS_new(2)>)

The addressing abstraction converts to and from text representations, indicates
whether given addresses are valid for listening on, connecting to, or both.

=item NAL_CONNECTION (see L<NAL_CONNECTION_new(2)>)

This encapsulates a network connection that can be used for sending and receiving
arbitrary binary data.

=item NAL_LISTENER (see L<NAL_LISTENER_new(2)>)

This encapsulates a listening socket that can be used to accept incoming
connection requests on a configured address, creating a NAL_CONNECTION wrapper
for each accepted connection.

=item NAL_SELECTOR (see L<NAL_SELECTOR_new(2)>)

This provides an object that can be prepared with various NAL_LISTENER and
NAL_CONNECTION objects, and then can block waiting for network activity up to
some configurable limit of time. This is the basis of non-blocking I/O and is
an encapsulation of the traditional select(2) function.

=item NAL_BUFFER (see L<NAL_BUFFER_new(2)>)

This abstraction implements a FIFO data array and is used primarily for
representing the read and send parts of a NAL_CONNECTION object.

=back

=head2 libdistcache

There are two APIs implemented by the B<libdistcache> library;

=over 4

=item distcache/dc_plug.h

This header provides the DC_PLUG abstraction. This encapsulates a connection
and implements the distcache protocol and various functions for manipulating
the reading and writing of distcache messages (requests or responses). This
abstraction can support client and server implementations of the distcache
protocol and supports asynchronous behaviour by interacting with I<libnal>'s
NAL_SELECTOR type. For more information, see L<DC_PLUG_new(2)>.

=item distcache/dc_client.h

This header declares a higher-level (and much simpler) API than dc_plug.h, and
is useful in applications that want API functions that ``do cache operations''.
The API is blocking, and provides simplistic ``add'', ``remove'', and ``get''
functions that only return once the full request/response cycle is complete or
an error has occured. This is the API used to add distcache support to
applications like Apache, stunnel, etc. For more information, see
L<DC_CTX_new(2)>.

=back

=head2 libdistcacheserver

This header declares an API for implementing a session cache supporting the
distcache protocol. It is primarily intended for environments that wish to
implement an alternative method for session storage. As with elements of
I<libdistcache>, this API is likely to be undergoing some important
restructuring and enhancements. Please consider subscribing to the distcache
mail list and/or monitoring CVS, this gives you an opportunity to influence
ongoing development and be less surprised at changes the turn up in future
versions. For more information, see L<DC_SERVER_new(2)>.

=head1 LICENSE

The I<distcache> toolkit, including the I<libnal> network abstraction library
that comes bundled with it, is distributed under the LGPL license ("Library GNU
Public License") and you should have received a copy of this license with this
software and its documents.


=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<dc_server(1)>

Distributed caching server.

=item L<dc_client(1)>

Distributed caching client proxy

=item L<dc_snoop(1)>

Distcache protocol analyser and debugging tool.

=item F<http://www.distcache.org/>

Distcache home page.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

This toolkit was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe for Cryptographic
Appliances Incorporated. Since the project was released into open source, it
has a home page and a project environment where development, mailing lists, and
releases are organised. For problems with the software or this man page please
check for new releases at the project web-site below, mail the users mailing
list described there, or contact the author at F<geoff@geoffthorpe.net>.

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

