=pod

=head1 NAME

NAL_SELECTOR_new, NAL_SELECTOR_free, NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn, NAL_SELECTOR_del_conn, NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn_ex, NAL_SELECTOR_add_listener, NAL_SELECTOR_del_listener, NAL_SELECTOR_select - libnal selector functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnal/nal.h>

 NAL_SELECTOR *NAL_SELECTOR_new(void);
 void NAL_SELECTOR_free(NAL_SELECTOR *a);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_del_conn(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn_ex(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, const NAL_CONNECTION *conn,
                              unsigned int flags);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_add_listener(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, const NAL_LISTENER *list);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_del_listener(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, const NAL_LISTENER *list);
 int NAL_SELECTOR_select(NAL_SELECTOR *sel, unsigned long usec_timeout,
                         int use_timeout);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NAL_SELECTOR_new() allocates and initialises a new B<NAL_SELECTOR> object.

NAL_SELECTOR_free() destroys a B<NAL_SELECTOR> object.

NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn(), NAL_SELECTOR_del_conn() and NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn_ex()
handle adding B<conn> to (or removing it from) the selector B<sel>. See
L</NOTES>.

NAL_SELECTOR_add_listener() and NAL_SELECTOR_del_listener() add or remove the
listener B<list> to/from the selector B<sel>. See L</NOTES>.

NAL_SELECTOR_select() blocks until the selector B<sel> receives notification of
network events for which it has registered interest. This function blocks
indefinitely until receipt of a network event, interruption by the system, or
if B<use_timeout> is non-zero, then the function will break if more than
B<usec_timeout> microseconds have passed. See L</NOTES>.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

NAL_SELECTOR_new() returns a valid B<NAL_SELECTOR> object on success, NULL
otherwise.

NAL_SELECTOR_free() has no return value.

NAL_SELECTOR_select() returns negative for an error, otherwise it returns the
number of connections and/or listeners that the selector has detected have
network events waiting (which can be zero).

All other B<NAL_SELECTOR> functions should only return non-zero values as
failure is only possible if a parameter is NULL (this behaviour will also be
removed in a future release - so functions are always assumed to succeed).

=head1 NOTES

The interaction of selectors and connections is as follows. When a connection
is added to selector with NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn() the selector will; (a) always
register the connection for I<exception> events, (b) register the connection
for I<readability> events only if the connection's read buffer is not full, and
(c) register the connection for I<sendability> events only if the connection's
send buffer is not empty. NAL_SELECTOR_del_conn() unregisters a connection from
any events it had already been registered. NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn_ex() allows
the caller to restrict the behaviour of NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn() according to
the following arguments for the B<flags> argument;

 #define NAL_SELECT_FLAG_READ (unsigned int)0x0001
 #define NAL_SELECT_FLAG_SEND (unsigned int)0x0002
 #define NAL_SELECT_FLAG_RW   (NAL_SELECT_FLAG_READ | NAL_SELECT_FLAG_SEND)

NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn() is equivalent to NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn_ex() with
B<flags> set to B<NAL_SELECT_FLAG_RW>.

The interaction of selectors and listeners is easier still. When a listener is
added to a selector with NAL_SELECTOR_add_listener() the selector will register
the listener for I<exception> and I<readability> events. A I<readability> event
on a listener indicates a connection request. NAL_SELECTOR_del_listener()
equally unregisters the listener from any events it had already been
registered.

The behaviour of NAL_SELECTOR_select() is what one would normally expect from a
system select(2) function. On error, the return value is negative. Otherwise
the return value is the number of connection and/or listener objects that have
network events waiting for them. A return value of zero is possible if the
function breaks before any network events have arrived, eg. if B<use_timeout>
was specified, or if a non-blocked signal arrived. In such cases, subsequent
calls to NAL_CONNECTION_io() and NAL_LISTENER_accept() will trivially return
without performing any actions as the selector has no events registered for
processing.  As such, if NAL_SELECTOR_select() returns zero, it is generally
advised to add the connections and listeners back to the selector object and
call NAL_SELECTOR_select() again.

As with other libnal functions, `errno' is not touched so that any errors in
the system's underlying implementations can be investigated directly by the
calling application.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<NAL_ADDRESS_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_ADDRESS type.

L<NAL_CONNECTION_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_CONNECTION type.

L<NAL_LISTENER_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_LISTENER type.

L<NAL_BUFFER_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_BUFFER type.

L<distcache(8)> - Overview of the distcache architecture.

F<http://www.distcache.org/> - Distcache home page.

=head1 AUTHOR

This toolkit was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe for Cryptographic
Appliances Incorporated. Since the project was released into open source, it
has a home page and a project environment where development, mailing lists, and
releases are organised. For problems with the software or this man page please
check for new releases at the project web-site below, mail the users mailing
list described there, or contact the author at F<geoff@geoffthorpe.net>.

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

