=pod

=head1 NAME

NAL_CONNECTION_new, NAL_CONNECTION_free, NAL_CONNECTION_create, NAL_CONNECTION_create_pair, NAL_CONNECTION_create_dummy, NAL_CONNECTION_set_size, NAL_CONNECTION_get_read, NAL_CONNECTION_get_send, NAL_CONNECTION_io, NAL_CONNECTION_io_cap, NAL_CONNECTION_address, NAL_CONNECTION_is_established, NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector, NAL_CONNECTION_del_from_selector - libnal connection functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnal/nal.h>

 NAL_CONNECTION *NAL_CONNECTION_new(void);
 void NAL_CONNECTION_free(NAL_CONNECTION *a);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_create(NAL_CONNECTION *conn, const NAL_ADDRESS *addr);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_create_pair(NAL_CONNECTION *conn1, NAL_CONNECTION *conn2,
                                unsigned int def_buffer_size);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_create_dummy(NAL_CONNECTION *conn,
                                 unsigned int def_buffer_size);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_set_size(NAL_CONNECTION *conn, unsigned int size);
 NAL_BUFFER *NAL_CONNECTION_get_read(NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 NAL_BUFFER *NAL_CONNECTION_get_send(NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 const NAL_BUFFER *NAL_CONNECTION_get_read(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 const NAL_BUFFER *NAL_CONNECTION_get_send(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_io(NAL_CONNECTION *conn, NAL_SELECTOR *sel);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_io_cap(NAL_CONNECTION *conn, NAL_SELECTOR *sel,
                           unsigned int max_read, unsigned int max_send);
 const NAL_ADDRESS *NAL_CONNECTION_address(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 int NAL_CONNECTION_is_established(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn);
 void NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn,
                                     NAL_SELECTOR *sel);
 void NAL_CONNECTION_del_from_selector(const NAL_CONNECTION *conn,
                                       NAL_SELECTOR *sel);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NAL_CONNECTION_new() allocates and initialises a new B<NAL_CONNECTION> object.

NAL_CONNECTION_free() destroys a B<NAL_CONNECTION> object.

NAL_CONNECTION_create() will attempt to connect to the address represented by
B<addr>. If this succeeds, it means either that the underlying connection of
B<conn> is established, or that a non-blocking connect was successfully
initiated but has not yet completed (it may still be rejected by the peer
eventually). Typically, unix domain sockets connect or fail immediately, and
usually TCP/IPv4 connect non-blocking, though this may not be true for some
interfaces such as `localhost'. NAL_CONNECTION_is_established() can be used to
distinguish the difference. The size of the connection's underlying read and
send B<NAL_BUFFER>s is initialised to the default that was created in B<addr>.
See the L</NOTES> section for more discussion of connection semantics.

NAL_CONNECTION_create_pair() will initialise B<conn1> and B<conn2> to be
end-points of a single connection. This is typically implemented using the
socketpair(2) function, and is designed to allow for an IPC mechanism that
integrates with I<libnal>. B<def_buffer_size> will control the size of the read
and send buffers of both connections if the functions succeed. See the
L<EXAMPLES> section for some uses of ``pairs''.

NAL_CONNECTION_create_dummy() will implement a virtual FIFO that has no
underlying network resource associated with it. Writing data to the connection
amounts to pushing data onto the front of the FIFO, and reading data from the
connection amounts to popping data off the end of the FIFO. The size of the
FIFO is specified by B<def_buffer_size>. See the L</BUGS> section for a note
on using these connection types with B<NAL_SELECTOR>.

NAL_CONNECTION_set_size() will resize the read and send buffers of B<conn> to
B<size>. The default size of those buffers is inherited from the setting
created in the B<NAL_ADDRESS> that initialised B<conn>, or if B<conn> was
accepted from a B<NAL_LISTENER> object, then from the address that created the
listener. The individual buffers can be resized independantly by using the
following two functions to obtain the buffesr and using B<NAL_BUFFER> functions
directly.

NAL_CONNECTION_get_read() and NAL_CONNECTION_get_send() return the read and send
buffers of B<conn>. This is how reading and writing is performed on B<conn>, as
B<NAL_BUFFER> functions may be used on these buffers directly.
NAL_CONNECTION_get_read_c() and NAL_CONNECTION_get_send_c() perform the same
function but on a constant B<conn> parameter and returning constant pointers to
the corresponding buffers.

NAL_CONNECTION_io() will perform any network input/output that is possible
given the state in B<sel>. Unless B<conn> had been added to B<sel> via
NAL_SELECTOR_add_conn() (or its `_ex' variant) and a resulting call to
NAL_SELECTOR_select() had revealed readability and/or writability on B<conn>,
this function will silently succeed. Otherwise it will attempt to perform
whatever reading or writing was required. If this function fails, that
indicates that the connection is no longer valid - this represents a
disconnection by the peer, the result of a non-blocking connect that had been
initiated but was unable to connect, or some network error that makes B<conn>
unusable. See the L</NOTES> section.

NAL_CONNECTION_io_cap() is a version of NAL_CONNECTION_io() that allows the
caller to specify a limit on the maximum amount B<conn> should read from, or
send to, the network. Whether this amount is read or sent (or even whether
reading or sending takes place at all) depends on; the data (and space)
available is in the connection's buffers, what the results of the last select
on B<sel> were, and how much data the host system's networking support will
accept or provide to B<conn>.

NAL_CONNECTION_address() returns a pointer to B<conn>'s internal copy of the
B<NAL_ADDRESS> object that it was created from.

NAL_CONNECTION_is_established() is useful for determining when a non-blocking
connect has completed. See the L</NOTES> section.

NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector() registers B<conn> with the selector B<sel> for
any events relevant to it. NAL_CONNECTION_del_from_selector() can be used to
reverse this if called before any subsequent call to NAL_SELECTOR_select().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

NAL_CONNECTION_new() returns a valid B<NAL_CONNECTION> object on success, NULL
otherwise.

NAL_CONNECTION_free(), NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector(), and
NAL_CONNECTION_del_from_selector() have no return value.

NAL_CONNECTION_get_read(), NAL_CONNECTION_get_send(),
NAL_CONNECTION_get_read_c(), and NAL_CONNECTION_get_send_c() return pointers to
the connection's buffer objects or NULL for failure.

NAL_CONNECTION_address() returns a pointer to B<conn>'s internal copy of the
B<NAL_ADDRESS> object that it was created from (which should not be manipulated
or destroyed by the caller), or NULL for failure.

All other B<NAL_CONNECTION> functions return zero for failure or false, and
non-zero for success or true.

=head1 NOTES

A B<NAL_CONNECTION> object encapsulates two B<NAL_BUFFER> objects and a
non-blocking socket. Any data that has been read from the socket is placed in
the read buffer, and applications write data into the send buffer for it to be
(eventually) written out to the socket. The B<NAL_SELECTOR> type provides the
ability to poll for any requested network events and then allow connections and
listeners to perform their network input/output based on the results.

NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector() uses the following logic; the connection is
always selected for exception events, and will be selected for readability if
its read buffer is not full and writability if its send buffer is not empty.

NAL_CONNECTION_io() is used after calling NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector() and
a subsequent call to NAL_SELECTOR_select(). It observes the following logic; if
an exception event has occured it returns failure, if readability is indicated
it will read incoming data up to the limit of the available space in the read
buffer, and if writability is indicated it will send as much of the send
buffer's data as possible. If NAL_CONNECTION_io() returns failure, the
connection is considered broken for some reason and no further I/O operations
should be attempted (the behaviour is undefined). NB: The connection object is
not automatically cleaned up so as to allow the caller to continue reading any
data in the read buffer and/or examine any unsent data in the send buffer.

The above is almost true, BTW :-) The special case is that of non-blocking
connects. If NAL_CONNECTION_create() cannot immediately connect without
blocking, it will return success but subsequent calls to
NAL_CONNECTION_is_established() will reveal that the connection is not yet
complete. Any connection that is not complete will request selection for
sendability inside NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector(), whether the application
has provided data to send or not. The completion (or failure) of the
non-blocking connect will thus cause any subsequent NAL_SELECTOR_select()
operation to break. As with all other semantics, it is the follow up call to
NAL_CONNECTION_io() that changes the state of the connection object - if it
returns failure, the non-blocking connect failed. If it returns success, you
should still call NAL_CONNECTION_is_established() to determine if the
connection is complete, as the selector could have broken because of signals or
network events on other objects.

It should be noted that the actual transport in use is virtualised to allow for
multiple transports and, because of this, multiple semantics for how the
network functionality behaves. TCP/IPv4 and unix domain socket based
connections, as well as connection pairs from NAL_CONNECTION_create_pair(),
operate very much as described here. The FIFO connection type, created by
NAL_CONNECTION_create_dummy() is not yet consistent with this and is described
in the L</BUGS> section.

=head1 BUGS

Dummy FIFO connections created using NAL_CONNECTION_create_dummy() should be
trivially selectable if anyone's daft enough to try. Ie. if you add a dummy
connection to a selector, the NAL_SELECTOR_select() should break instantly if
the FIFO is non-empty otherwise the FIFO should have no influence at all on the
real select(2). Right now, NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector() silently ignores
dummy connections completely.

=head1 EXAMPLES

A typical state-machine implementation using a single connection is illustrated
here (without error-checking);

    NAL_BUFFER *c_read, *c_send;
    NAL_SELECTOR *sel = NAL_SELECTOR_new();
    NAL_CONNECTION *conn = NAL_CONNECTION_new();
    NAL_ADDRESS *addr = retrieve_the_desired_address();

    /* Setup */
    NAL_CONNECTION_create(conn, addr);
    c_read = NAL_CONNECTION_get_read(conn);
    c_send = NAL_CONNECTION_get_send(conn);

    /* Loop */
    do {
	/* This is where the state-machine code should process as much data as
	 * possible from 'c_read' and/or produce as much output to 'c_send' as
	 * it can. */
        ...
	... user code
	...
	/* block on (relevant) network events for 'conn' */
	NAL_CONNECTION_add_to_selector(conn, sel);
	NAL_SELECTOR_select(sel, 0, 0);
	/* Do network I/O after the above blocking select and continue looping
	 * only if the connection is still alive. */
    } while(NAL_CONNECTION_io(conn, sel));

An example of using a connection pair (with 2 Kb read and send buffers for each
connection) to create IPC between a parent process and its child (again, no
error checking);

    NAL_CONNECTION *ipc_to_parent = NAL_CONNECTION_new();
    NAL_CONNECTION *ipc_to_child = NAL_CONNECTION_new();

    /* Setup */
    NAL_CONNECTION_create_pair(ipc_to_parent, ipc_to_child, 2048);

    /* Create child process */
    switch(fork()) {
        case 0:
	    /* Inside the child process, close our copy of the parent's side */
	    NAL_CONNECTION_free(ipc_to_child);
	    /* Do child process things, and use 'ipc_to_parent' to communicate
	     * with the parent. */
	    do_child_logic(ipc_to_parent);
	    exit(0);
	default:
	    /* Inside the parent process, close our copy of the child's side */
	    NAL_CONNECTION_free(ipc_to_parent);
	    break;
    }
    /* Continue in the parent process, and use 'ipc_to_child' to communicate
     * with the child. */
    do_parent_logic(ipc_to_child);

Note that these connection pairs can also be a useful way of handling process
termination that allow you to bypass signal handling altogether. If a child
process terminates, the connection between the pair will be broken and so this
will be noticed in the parent process by any selector selecting on the
B<ipc_to_child> connection - the subsequent NAL_CONNECTION_io() operation will
fail indicating that the child process is dead (or in the process of dying) and
so the parent could immediately call wait(2) or waitpid(2). Whether the SIGCHLD
signal arrives before the NAL_CONNECTION_io() call or not is not too important,
at worst it might prematurely interrupt NAL_SELECTOR_select() (causing it to
return zero) so that a redundant loop of the state-machine runs before the next
select operation will notice the disconnection. If you already need IPC between
the parent and child for exchange of data anyway, this mechanism could be
useful in avoiding global variables, signal handlers, and the associated
difficulties.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<NAL_CONNECTION_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_CONNECTION type.

L<NAL_LISTENER_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_LISTENER type.

L<NAL_SELECTOR_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_SELECTOR type.

L<NAL_BUFFER_new(2)> - Functions for the NAL_BUFFER type.

L<distcache(8)> - Overview of the distcache architecture.

F<http://www.distcache.org/> - Distcache home page.

=head1 AUTHOR

This toolkit was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe for Cryptographic
Appliances Incorporated. Since the project was released into open source, it
has a home page and a project environment where development, mailing lists, and
releases are organised. For problems with the software or this man page please
check for new releases at the project web-site below, mail the users mailing
list described there, or contact the author at F<geoff@geoffthorpe.net>.

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

