=head1 NAME

swamp - SSL/TLS load-tester based on OpenSSL


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<swamp> -connect <address> [options]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<swamp> is a utility that can be used to test and/or benchmark SSL/TLS
servers. It is quite configurable and allows for various different
characteristics of the server's behaviour to be tested.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-connect> address

Configures the address to which B<swamp> should connect for outgoing connections,
using the syntax defined by the I<libnal> API. For connecting to TCP/IP addresses,
the syntax is illustrated below (you may use an explicit IP address or a host name);

    # swamp -connect IP:192.168.0.1:443
    # swamp -connect IP:www.localnet:443

To connect to an SSL/TLS server on a unix domain socket, the syntax is;

    # swamp -connect UNIX:/path/to/some/socket

=item B<-CAfile> path

Specifies a PEM file containing trusted CA certificates.

=item B<-cert> path

Specifies a PEM file containing the client certificate and private key. This will
permit swamp to perform client-authentication if the server requests it (and if
the client certificate is signed by a CA the server approves of).

=item B<-sslmeth> method

Specifies an SSL/TLS version, either 'sslv2', 'sslv3', or 'tlsv1'. The default
is to interoperate with the version used by the server.

=item B<-num> num

Specifies the number of simultaneous connections to use. Default is 5.

=item B<-count> num

Specifies the number of requests to perform before terminating. Default is 0,
which indicates to continue indefinitely.

=item B<-time> secs

Specifies the number of seconds to run before terminating. Default is 0, which
indicates to continue indefinitely.

=item B<-request> string

Specifies a clear-text string to send to the server once the SSL/TLS protocol as
negotiated a session. The default is "GET /\r\n".

=item B<-expect> num

Specifies the amount of clear-text output to expect from the server through the
negotiated session. The default is 20 bytes.

=item B<-session> string

Specifies a pattern of 's' (new session) and 'r' (resume) to allow swamp to
test certain combinations of resuming cached sessions. Eg. 'srrsrrr' causes
swamp to attempt to resume a previous SSL/TLS session 5 times out of 7. If
B<-num> is used to specify multiple simultaneous connections, each one will
independently iterate over the same pattern. NB, if a server is unable to
resumbe an SSL/TLS session, the connection results in a full handshake anyway.
Use of B<-update> should indicate how many resume-attempts were honoured.

The default is 's', ie. all new sessions.

=item B<-update> num

Specifies the number of seconds between an updated line of statistics. Default
is 0, which indicates to produce no updates.

=item B<-cipher> string

Specifies the list of SSL/TLS cipher-suites to perform, see openssl documentation
for more information. The default is to use OpenSSL defaults.

=item B<-csv> path

Specifies a file to produce CSV statistics each second. Default is to produce
no CSV output.

=item B<-session_ids>

Display all SSL/TLS session IDs negotiated. This produces a lot of output, and
is intended for diagnostics only (eg. when session-caching is not working - this
can be used together with B<-session>).

=item B<-engine> id

Specifies an ENGINE id to initialise and use.

=item B<-distribute> str

If multiple B<-connect> switches are specified, each destination address is associated
with an index from B<1> to B<n>. Use of the B<-distribute> switch allows a connection
context (ie. B<-num> specifies how many) to iterate requests across a certain pattern
of destination addresses. Eg. "1,2,3,2,3,3" would target 3 addresses, with the second
and third addresses getting progressively heavier weighting.

Note, within a given connection context, successive connections iterate across
any B<-destribute> pattern for destination addresses at the same time as it iterates
across any B<-session> pattern for session-resumes. By choosing both patterns
carefully, it is possible to test whether a server cluster supports a shared
session cache (eg. using I<distcache>).

=item B<-nologo>

This disables the banner output, mostly useful when grepping swamp output from a
script or some such magic.

=item B<-h>, B<-help>, B<-?>

Any of these flags will cause B<swamp> to display a brief usage summary to
the console and exit cleanly. Any other flags are ignored.

=back


=head1 BUGS

Someone should find time to filter down and integrate some of the extra cruft
at; F<http://www.geoffthorpe.net/crypto/swamp/swamp-1.1.0/README>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<NAL_ADDRESS_new(2)>

Information on the I<libnal> network abstraction library used by swamp. This
provides some information about the syntax used for B<-connect>.

=item L<distcache(8)>

Overview of the distcache architecture, of which swamp is a component.

=item F<http://www.distcache.org/>

Distcache home page.

=item F<http://www.geoffthorpe.net/crypto/swamp/swamp-1.1.0/README>

Older swamp-1.1.0 documentation, but contains more info (some of which may be
stale).

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Swamp was designed and implemented by Geoff Thorpe. Steve Robb has contributed
numerous tweaks and fixes along the way too. To consolidate resources and
provide an improved framework for ongoing development, the swamp utility was
made a component of the distcache project in 2003 (swamp happens to be the
ideal tool for testing distcache's most common usage - secure web servers).

Home Page: F<http://www.distcache.org>

